hi I'm bill Myers and this is another
one of my video tips a week and this
week's tip I'm going to show you how to
quickly create a DVD menu in Sony DVD
architect and what you're seeing in
front of you the standard DVD architect
screen and what we're going to do is
we're going to start from the beginning
go all the way through first thing you
want to do is click file and new and
then decide whether this is a menu based
DVD or a single movie if it's a single
movie just click a single movie and okay
and then click the movie that you want
to add to your DVD when you do that the
movie is going to start playing
immediately I'll click preview and see
the movie starts playing immediately as
soon as the DVD is inserted in most
cases you're going to want to add a menu
to your DVD and this is okay even if
you've selected the single movie now the
way we're going to add a menu is that
when I edit this DVD in Sony movie
studio I added chapter markers where I
want each chapter to begin and each
chapter market is actually a menu item
in my DVD to add that what I'll do is
I'll highlight the avi file that I added
select insert scene selection movie tell
it the page title let's call it my DVD
menu will have a links per page and
we'll click OK and as you can see now
our DVD has a menu called my DVD menu
well click preview so you can see and if
I click on any of these menu allottee
items it'll start the DVD at that
chapter for example so that's how easy
it is now in most cases you're going to
want to have more than just this blue
background in text and in DVD architect
it's easy to change your background you
can just go to themes and select a
different background theme it also
changed the buttons to match the theme
that you've chosen again I'm sliding
down here and I'll click the birthday
theme or the corporate theme and you
notice on the corporate theme was slick
preview the text is really nice you can
see all the buttons I'll have to do to
play video is to click the link now you
may want to do more than that you may
want to add your own background rather
than using one that I've chosen it's
real easy to do while you're looking at
menu page make sure that the menu page
properties up select the background
media select video and then select
replace you can choose anything you want
and
what I'm going to do on mine is I've got
some background that I've downloaded
I'll try that background and if I click
preview I can see what that looks like
with that background now if we if we
like that we'd say we want to add some
background music again while we have the
menu page properties up we select audio
click down click replace and we'll
select an audio track to go with that
let's see I've got some buyout music
here I like this audio track right there
and to preview that I click preview
so doing that was very easy to do all I
had to do was pull my video clip on to
the menu screen select create menu and
choose one of the templates and then put
my own backgrounds in it it's that easy
to do from this point on to make your
DVD you just click the make DVD button
and it'll make it optimize your DVD and
it'll tell you if there's anything wrong
again
you can do all this with Sony DVD
architect you can use the pre-made
templates you can use your own
background media you can use your own
background video your own background
audio you can change text you can insert
text you can change the size of all your
menu items you can change the fonts that
they use you can change the placement on
the screen you have complete control
over everything in it I'm Bill Myers
this has been my video tip of the week
to find more like this visit wwm is com